README.md, before:

# algorist

[![crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/d/cargo-algorist.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/cargo-algorist)
[![dependencies](https://deps.rs/repo/github/farazdagi/cargo-algorist/status.svg)](https://deps.rs/repo/github/farazdagi/cargo-algorist)

Cargo sub-command to manage the [algorist](https://crates.io/crates/algorist) crate.

## Installation

``` bash
cargo install cargo-algorist
```

Once installed, you can use it as `cargo algorist`.

## Usage

### Create a new contest project

To create a new contest project:

``` bash
cargo algorist create <contest_id>

# examples:
cargo algorist create 4545
cargo algorist create contests/4545 # sub-folders are supported
```

This will create a Rust project with all the necessary problem files and algorithm modules copied
into it.

Problem files will be created in `src/bin` directory, and the library with algorithms and data
structures will be created in `crates/algorist` directory.

To ensure that everything works, run the problem file in `src/bin/a.rs`:

``` bash
# run problem A (`src/bin/a.rs`)
# it expects input from stdin (type 1 2 3 and press Enter)
cargo run --bin a

# it is a normal Rust project, you can use all the usual commands
cargo build
cargo test --bin a
```

If you don't want to have initial problem files added to the contest project, you can create a new
contest project with `--empty` flag:

``` bash
cargo algorist create <contest_id> --empty
```

Later on, you can always add a problem file into `src/bin` directory, using:

``` bash
cargo algorist add <problem_id>

# examples:
cargo algorist add a        # `.rs` is not required
cargo algorist add a.rs     # same as above
```

### Work on a problem

The problem file `src/bin/<problem_id>.rs` will contain entry point `main()` function, which is
expected to read input from standard input and write output to standard output.

The starter code for the problem file will look something like this:

``` rust, no_run
use algorist::io::{test_cases, wln};

fn main() {
    test_cases(&mut |scan, w| {
        let (a, b) = scan.u2();
        wln!(w, "{}", a + b);
    });
}
```

Note: see the Algorist [`documentation`](https://docs.rs/algorist/latest/algorist/) for details and
illustrative examples.

Normally, when working on a solution, you copy the tests cases from the contest system into the
clipboard (or file), and then need to see the output of your program.

With the project created using `cargo-algorist`, you can do this easily:

``` bash
# alias pbpaste=’xsel — clipboard — output’ on Linux
pbpaste | cargo run --bin <problem_id>   # gets input from clipboard
cargo run --bin <problem_id> < input.txt # gets input from file
```

Once you are happy with the output, you can submit the solution back to the contest system (by
bundling into a single file).

### Bundle the project

Contest systems expect a single output file, where all the used modules are packed within the scope
of that file. At the very least `io` module is expected to be included in such an output file.

To bundle a given problem file, use the following command:

``` bash
cargo algorist bundle <problem_id>

# examples:
cargo algorist bundle a # `.rs` is not required
cargo algorist bundle a.rs
```

This will create a single output file in `bundled/<problem_id>.rs` file, which can be submitted to
the contest system.

Note: only the modules actually used in the problem file will be included in the output file.

## The Algorist library

The Algorist library contains a lot of useful code that can be imported into your contest projects.

See [`algorist`](https://docs.rs/algorist/latest/algorist/) crate documentation for a complete list
of available algorithms and data structures, as well as their usage examples.

## Using your own algorithms and data structures

By default, when creating projects with `cargo algorist create` the
[`algorist`](https://docs.rs/algorist/latest/algorist/) library will be added into `crates/algorist`
directory.

While the Algorist crate provides a lot of useful algorithms and data structures, the original plan
was to allow users to rely on their own code, i.e. when working on contest problems, if you find
something that can be abstracted into a reusable module, you can do it and expand your own library
of algorithms. This way your library grows with your experience.

To use your own library, specify path to it with `--manifest-path` (or `-p`):

``` bash
cargo algorist create <contest_id> --manifest-path /path/to/Cargo.toml
cargo algorist create <contest_id> -p /path/to/Cargo.toml

# Path to project (directory with `Cargo.toml`) will also work
# No need to specify `Cargo.toml` file explicitly
cargo algorist create <contest_id> --manifest-path /path/to
cargo algorist create <contest_id> -p /path/to
```

Your project will be created in the same way, but instead of copying the Algorist library, it will
copy your own library.

It is recommended that you start by forking the [`algorist`](https://github.com/farazdagi/algorist)
repository, and then use it as a base for your own library (for instance, remove everything, but
`io`, and have fun). The `io` module is assumed by default problem files that are created if
`--empty` flag is not specified, or when `cargo algorist add <problem_id>` is used.

## License

MIT

Commit message:

feat: allow to run/test bundled files

README.md, after:

# algorist

[![crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/d/cargo-algorist.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/cargo-algorist)
[![dependencies](https://deps.rs/repo/github/farazdagi/cargo-algorist/status.svg)](https://deps.rs/repo/github/farazdagi/cargo-algorist)

Cargo sub-command to manage the [algorist](https://crates.io/crates/algorist) crate.

## Installation

``` bash
cargo install cargo-algorist
```

Once installed, you can use it as `cargo algorist`.

## Usage

### Create a new contest project

To create a new contest project:

``` bash
cargo algorist create <contest_id>

# examples:
cargo algorist create 4545
cargo algorist create contests/4545 # sub-folders are supported
```

This will create a Rust project with all the necessary problem files and algorithm modules copied
into it.

Problem files will be created in `src/bin` directory, and the library with algorithms and data
structures will be created in `crates/algorist` directory.

To ensure that everything works, run the problem file in `src/bin/a.rs`:

``` bash
# run problem A (`src/bin/a.rs`)
# it expects input from stdin (type 1 2 3 and press Enter)
cargo run --bin a

# it is a normal Rust project, you can use all the usual commands
cargo build
cargo test --bin a
```

If you don't want to have initial problem files added to the contest project, you can create a new
contest project with `--empty` flag:

``` bash
cargo algorist create <contest_id> --empty
```

Later on, you can always add a problem file into `src/bin` directory, using:

``` bash
cargo algorist add <problem_id>

# examples:
cargo algorist add a        # `.rs` is not required
cargo algorist add a.rs     # same as above
```

### Work on a problem

The problem file `src/bin/<problem_id>.rs` will contain entry point `main()` function, which is
expected to read input from standard input and write output to standard output.

The starter code for the problem file will look something like this:

``` rust, no_run
use algorist::io::{test_cases, wln};

fn main() {
    test_cases(&mut |scan, w| {
        let (a, b) = scan.u2();
        wln!(w, "{}", a + b);
    });
}
```

Note: see the Algorist [`documentation`](https://docs.rs/algorist/latest/algorist/) for details and
illustrative examples.

Normally, when working on a solution, you copy the tests cases from the contest system into the
clipboard (or file), and then need to see the output of your program.

With the project created using `cargo-algorist`, you can do this easily:

``` bash
# alias pbpaste=’xsel — clipboard — output’ on Linux
pbpaste | cargo run --bin <problem_id>   # gets input from clipboard
cargo run --bin <problem_id> < input.txt # gets input from file
```

Once you are happy with the output, you can submit the solution back to the contest system (by
bundling into a single file).

### Bundle the project

Contest systems expect a single output file, where all the used modules are packed within the scope
of that file. At the very least `io` module is expected to be included in such an output file.

To bundle a given problem file, use the following command:

``` bash
cargo algorist bundle <problem_id>

# examples:
cargo algorist bundle a # `.rs` is not required
cargo algorist bundle a.rs
```

This will create a single output file in `bundled/bin/<problem_id>.rs` file, which can be submitted
to the contest system.

You can test it by running:

``` bash
cargo run --manifest-path bundled/Cargo.toml --bin <problem_id>

# The code id `bundled` directory is just a Rust project,
# with single-file binaries for each problem:
cd bundled
cargo run --bin <problem_id>
```

Note: only the modules actually used in the problem file will be included in the output file.

## The Algorist library

The Algorist library contains a lot of useful code that can be imported into your contest projects.

See [`algorist`](https://docs.rs/algorist/latest/algorist/) crate documentation for a complete list
of available algorithms and data structures, as well as their usage examples.

## Using your own algorithms and data structures

By default, when creating projects with `cargo algorist create` the
[`algorist`](https://docs.rs/algorist/latest/algorist/) library will be added into `crates/algorist`
directory.

While the Algorist crate provides a lot of useful algorithms and data structures, the original plan
was to allow users to rely on their own code, i.e. when working on contest problems, if you find
something that can be abstracted into a reusable module, you can do it and expand your own library
of algorithms. This way your library grows with your experience.

To use your own library, specify path to it with `--manifest-path` (or `-p`):

``` bash
cargo algorist create <contest_id> --manifest-path /path/to/Cargo.toml
cargo algorist create <contest_id> -p /path/to/Cargo.toml

# Path to project (directory with `Cargo.toml`) will also work
# No need to specify `Cargo.toml` file explicitly
cargo algorist create <contest_id> --manifest-path /path/to
cargo algorist create <contest_id> -p /path/to
```

Your project will be created in the same way, but instead of copying the Algorist library, it will
copy your own library.

It is recommended that you start by forking the [`algorist`](https://github.com/farazdagi/algorist)
repository, and then use it as a base for your own library (for instance, remove everything, but
`io`, and have fun). The `io` module is assumed by default problem files that are created if
`--empty` flag is not specified, or when `cargo algorist add <problem_id>` is used.

## License

MIT
